Introduction
------------

Pragmapress is a collection of command-line tools that allow one to use the
wordpress.com website from the command line. It is designed to handle multiple
blogs. In fact, pragmapress has always been on my todo-list, but for the last
few years I didn't have enough incentive to make it. Now that I have more than
20 blogs on wordpress.com, I had to find a way to streamline my workflow.

Pragmapress doesn't just support publishing, editing and deleting of posts. It
also supports writing posts in asciidoc. This means that pragmapress enables
one to use the unix command-line for all phases of the blogging process.

In order to use pragmapress you need to register a developer client on:
https://developer.wordpress.com/apps/

Once you do that, you can put your credentials in cred.json, in this
repository's root directory. The format is as follows.

	{
		"username": "my_wordpress_username",
		"password": "my_wordpress_password",
		"clientid": 12345,
		"editor": "vim"
	}

You can get your client id, by going to https://developer.wordpress.com/apps/
and clicking on 'manage application'. The ID will be appended to the end of
that URL. Copy it into cred.js

Your posts are organized in the `blog/` directory. Each blog is stored as a
directory called `blog/$sitename.wordpress.com`. In each blog's directory you
have the following subdirectories: `posts` and `pages`. Each of _those_
subdirectories contain content directories. A content directory contains
content. The only file that should be in there is a <filename>.txt file. This
.txt file is an asciidoc file. Once you write your post in asciidoc. You can
publish it by:

	cd tools
	./publish $sitename $post_type $post_content_dir

Once you run that, the content directory for that post will contain a scrubbed
HTML file suitable for wordpress.com, and a json file that contain metadata
about the post. You should ONLY EVER MODIFY THE ASCIIDOC FILE.

To update a post or page, you change the asciidoc content and run:

	cd tools
	./update $sitename $post_type $post_content_dir

To edit in your favorite text editor do:

	cd tools
	./edit $sitename $post_type $post_content_dir

That's all I have so far. More features are coming soon, as the need for them
arises.

Things Pragmapress can't do, even in theory
-------------------------------------------

The wordpress.com API doesn't allow one to remotely modify a site's themes, and
it doesn't allow one to create a site remotely. The former kind of sucks, while
the latter is understandable (as an anti-squatting measure?).

Things Pragmapress should be able to do in the future, but doesn't yet
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Need to add a command that can 'import' old wordpress posts made with other
clients. This way, we can grab the metadata. Would be nice if there was a
simple html2asciidoc converter. Implement a `stats` command that can do
plotting with R (may seem silly for one site, but for 20 it's neccessary). Also
need to add a media directory, that allows one to beam media up to the
mother-ship.


DEPENDENCIES
------------

You need:

`json` command line utility (https://github.com/zpoley/json-command)
`asciidoc` must be installed (http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/)
`awk` (should be pre-installed on non-stripped-down unixen)
`ksh` (the default shell on SmartOS, should be installable from pkgs)
